title: 'Introducing Grippers'' Tips'
intro_content: |
  <p>Here we go again...
  </p>
content_pieces:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>Oh hi there.&nbsp;</p><p>My name''s Dan Letson, aka DJML. I''m a web designer, music collector, and occasional musician from Oakland, California. Years ago, I ran an on-again / off-again design and music blog called <a href="http://glob.daniel-letson.com/">The Globule</a>&nbsp;where I shared scans from old books, reviewed records, and hosted downloads for my own enjoyment to the appreciation of (realistically) a couple dozen people.&nbsp;</p><p>Grippers'' Tips (plural possessive) is a continuation of that model, but with a slightly different ethos. While The Globule was born in the golden era of music blogs, when holy-grail zips of rare albums were plentiful on the open web, Grippers.tips is similarly a product of its time. The site aims to focus attention on interesting and under-exposed music of all genres, with an emphasis on supporting creators and fostering a community around shared exploration of fringe musical zones. Most importantly, the site will strive to be platform- and format-agnostic, recognizing that there is just as much inspiring, creative potential in Bandcamp as CD Baby, in a dollar-bin 12" as a forgotten Beatport download.&nbsp;</p><p>Grippers'' Tips is a work in progress and a labor of love. The site is designed, built and written in my spare time, and the hosting comes directly out of my pocket. Quite frankly, the world is a sad place, but appreciating music is a wonderful distraction. If you like what you see and hear and think you''d like to get involved in some way, <a href="mailto:grippers.tips@gmail.com" target="_blank">drop me a line</a>. I''d love to hear from you!</p><p>Thanks,&nbsp;</p><p>-Dan</p>'
author:
  -
    type: user_author
    user_profile:
      - cf6f373f-69b8-4a0c-8cc3-cad9f0ce7bff
meta_description: 'Here we go again...'
hide_from_indexing: false
id: 3c141ffd-3f17-48bd-a5be-0762662983f9
